---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly Update 3: Professional Development CU Boulder"
date:   2026-06-12
categories: blog post
---

I spent this week putting together my first Learning Series draft on Breadth First Search. I also started mapping out the framework for the program itself. My goal was to start connecting the written explanations with how the visualization tool might actually work.

I decided on this framework for the Learning Series:

- Learning Objectives
- Plain Language Definition
- Analogy
- Key Terms
- Implementation Code

I got a good start on the Learning Series draft, but I got a bit stuck / started focusing on the basics of graphs and what I thought the reader should know from a core understanding perspective. I think I need to focus more on the specific learning objectives for each algorithm and make sure that the content is focused on those objectives.

The biggest impediment this week is unexpected work travel from Monday through Wednesday. Since I’ll be out of state for part of the week, I may have less time than usual to work on the project.

Overall, I'm happy with the progress I've made this week on the learning series draft but feel like I need to focus more on the program structure and how the different components will fit together. I want to make sure that the learning series is closely tied to the visualization tool and that they complement each other well. Next week, I plan to continue working on the BFS Learning Series draft and start putting together a prototype for the BFS visualization.

